in this video, we are going learn how to import
the mikrotik router and cisco router to gns3.
If you don't have gns3 installed on your computer
yet, you can download from gns3.com, here
you can download it for free, You just need
to create an account first, don’t worry,
you don't have to pay anything to create an
account, After creating free account
you will be able to download gns3 installer for
free.
I assume that you already have gns3 installed
on your computer, so I will not teach you
how to install gns3, here I will teach you
how to import a mikrotik router and cisco
router to gns3.
Open the gns3, create a new project, in this
case, I create project1.
To import a mikrotik router and cisco, you
must download the image first.
I have uploaded a mikrotik and cisco image
in the resource section, you can just download it
The chr will be used for mikrotik, and the
another image will be use for cisco.
Now I have those two image in my computer.
Let’s start importing mikrotik & cisco router
to gns3. Go to edit and preference, we will
try to import the Cisco router first, you
can go to IOS router, then choose new, here
we can browse to the image that we have downloaded
before.
choose yes.
Then next, We don't need to set anything,
we will use default configuration, so we just
stay next, next, next, until finish.
Okay, now we have successfully import cisco
router to gns3.
Next let’s try to import mikrotik router
to gns3, we have to enter the qemu vms menu,
then click new, we get a warning here, but
we can ignore it, enter the name here,
i use mikrotik, for RAM, we use default, which is
256MB, next, next, here we must select new
image, then browse to the mikrotik image that
we have downloaded before.
yes, then finish.
If you want to change the mikrotik logo, you
can enter the edit menu, then there is a symbol,
select browse, then you can choose as you
like.
Here I will use the router firewall icon ... okay,
okay, and okay.
If we see here, we will see mikrotik and cisco,
we can import our router to the project by
drag and drop, we also import a Cisco, to
turn on the router, we can right-click and
choose start, here we can see the green icon,
which means both of routers are running.
And if we look here, notice that the CPU load
is 100%.
To decrease the cpu usage, we can do it by
right-click on cisco router and then select
auto idle pc.
Here we can see that now the usage of CPU
is decreased.
To console the router, we can just double
click on the router.
Here the terminal will open automatically,
the username for mikrotik is admin, and the
password is blank.
Okey, now we have entered the mikrotik router.
let’s try to enter cisco, here we can also
see that we have entered the Cisco router.
Okay, this is the end of this video, in the
next video we will learn how to connect Cisco
routers and Mikrotik routers to our computers,
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.